
A neighbor asked me if I wanted some pallets. My wife said yes with the intentions that I was going to build HER projects. The pallets laid behind the garage all summer. The beginning of October I started by dismantling the pallets. They were dry and cracked but in good shape otherwise. I used a sawzall to cut the nails instead of trying to pry them apart. I had a little help from the kids when I started building the box.

I have no 45 degree cuts or anything that would make this difficult while the kids were helping. I did have use of a chop saw and a table saw during the building of the box. We used screws for the entire project for ease of assembly and just in case we made a mistake or changed or minds.

I started by stacking the boards on top of each other to get an idea of how tall the sides would be. Stacking the boards 5 high equaled 17". This seemed big enough to get all of my future electronics in. The box is rectangular. The pallets were 42" wide, so I left the boards that length. The sides I cut to 15".

We used 1 1/4" all purpose screws to attach the picture framing to the boards.

The bottom of the box and the lid are the same size as the long sides. 42" x 17". I used (2) 1" x 3" hinges to connect it. The lid will be lifted and dropped with the use of a motor.

The circuit board is attached to a piece of plywood that is screwed to a 2x4 frame. The idea is that everything can be removed. I tried to make everything modular.

The box is powered by 120 volt AC and stepped down to 12 volt DC.

The box works as follows:

1. A person walks in front of the box and sets off the motion detector. The sensor is on the outside of the box mounted in a receptacle box.

2. The motion sensor will stay on and continue to complete the circuit until it no longer sees movement.

3. I want the box to shut off after 5 seconds. I want the trick or treaters to be surprised. I also want the box to reset for the next group to come through. Because the motion sensor would keep the box opening and closing the whole time, I added a second timer that opens the circuit after 5 seconds. It will reset after the motion sensor no longer sees movement. They are wired in series for this reason. The motion sensor resets after about 42-47 seconds of no movement.

4. The receptacle is energized for the 5 seconds the timer is active.